
Abstract
The Rapid growth of technology and infrastructure has made our lives easier. The advent of technology has also increased the traffic hazards and the road accident take place frequently which causes huge loss of life and property because of the poor emergency facilities. Our project will provide an optimum solution to this draw back. An accelerometer can be used in a car alarm application so that dangerous driving can be detected. It can be used as a crash or rollover detector of the vehicle during and after a crash. With signals from an accelerometer, a severe accident can be recognized. 
According to this project when a vehicle meets with an accident, the accelerometer would detect the sudden change in acceleration, thereby detecting the accident and would send the signal to ARM controller. Microcontroller sends the alert message through the GSM MODEM including the location to police control room or a rescue team or relatives of the concerned person. So the police can immediately trace the location through the GPS MODEM, after receiving the information. Then after conforming the location necessary action will be taken. If the person meets with a small accident or if there is no serious threat to anyone`s life, then the alert message can be terminated by the driver by a switch provided in order to avoid wasting the valuable time of the medical rescue team. This paper is useful in detecting the accident precisely by means of an accelerometer coupled with a GPS and a GSM module. As there is a scope for improvement and as a future implementation we can add a wireless webcam for capturing the images which would help providing more information about the extent of injury suffered by passengers in the vehicle.